
SKIP NAVIGATION






SIGN IN

may
yeah which is I am my rescue nobody else
what

2:38 / 55:14
Transcript


all right everybody welcome to inside
quest if you're joining us I'm guessing
it's because you my friend are on a
mission you have a vision free life not
as it is but as it could be and our goal
is to help you gain the skills you're
going to need to cross that chasm and
accomplish anything in your life from
the simple to the seemingly impossible
and the guests we're going to bring on
are the people we really believe have
the insights and the skills that you
need to translate your ideas into
concrete reality and that transformation
is what this show really is all about so
why do I believe in today's guest I've
had to sum it up she is grit a and I'm
talking gritty as hell her life story is
a mind-boggling tale of profound human
transformation she was formally broke
and surviving only with the help of
public aid but this single mother
learned her way to success and went from
being on public assistance to running a
multi-million dollar public company she
is now one of only two african-american
female founders to have a company on
Wall Street and along the way she has
turned herself into an amazing media
personality she's been invited to speak
by Oprah Steve Harvey and The Today Show
to help inspire millions of people
she has toured all over the world she
was just telling me off-camera how much
of the world is pretty crazy sharing not
only her unbelievable tale of mental
transformation for the tools the tools
that she used to make it happen she is
one of the most sought-after
motivational speakers on the planet and
her global platform has reached and
served nearly 30 million people
worldwide
she's also a tireless philanthropist who
has been recognized by everyone from the
country of South Africa to the Lego
Corporation for her humanitarian efforts
she is living proof that it doesn't
matter where you start it only matters
where you want to go and the price
you're willing to pay to get there so
please help me in welcoming the CEO of
motivating the masses the New York Times
bestselling author with seven books to
her name including no matter what an
abundance now the woman Houston Texas
named a day after Lisa Nichols
absolutely hey guys not look good so
really really an honor you probably know
and I've certainly told these guys a
thousand times the rule that we have for
guests is as I research them it needs to
be motivational for me and there was
just quote after quote after quote that
was just absolutely incredible and I
want to start with a quote from you if I
may
yeah which is I am my rescue nobody else
what does that mean to you because it
really hit me um it means that
everything that I need to get back up I
have in me if I don't have what I need I
can go get it once I figured that out
the world was my like playground like
the questions just where do I go get it
well I don't know about that word I go
get it and and I don't come from a
learning background where I was a great
student I wasn't you know my highest
grade in school was a C+ and when I got
a C+ I did the happy day and and so I
didn't have a background where studying
was natural for me but when I realized
that if I go study something and I learn
it I own it it's mine now man it was
crazy because all through school I
struggled I the last time I took an
English class my English teacher told me
I was the weakest writer she ever met in
her entire life
lovely yeah lovely and the same year I
took a speech class and my speech
teacher he said quote unquote miss
Nichols I recommend you never speak in
public that you get a desk job and so I
mean yeah it just is just you know it
was it was demotivated people sad people
hurt people hurt sad people make other
people sad bottom line don't take it
personal hurt people hurt that's really
right I don't want to derail your
stories there sounds amazing we are
going to finish that tale but hurt
people hurt people are sad that's they
make other people say it's a Buick other
was that because people love company
everywhere you are you want company and
so without taking it personal just see
where people are and so a part of that
was I had to see who I was hanging
around and you know miserable people
want company you know and I had to
literally be willing and I only
relocated my mind or relocate my body
so I can relocate my finances relocate
my possibility relocate my son's future
I was very clear the future of my son
was going to have if I didn't do
something and I was not subscribing to
that not on my watch my son's father
went to prison when he was eight months
old and he's been in prison since my son
was 8 months old whoa
my son turns 22 this year my son is
african-american male child living in
South Central Los Angeles went at that
time he had a 66% chance rate of going
to prison not on my watch
so I was willing to be radical see most
people want the convenience of
transformation without the inconvenience
required required for transformation so
my grandmother says and I love to repeat
this your conviction which you're
passionate about your conviction and
your convenience don't live on the same
block they ain't even in the same zip
code so if you want to have a conviction
for something you have to sign up sign
up to be in convenience we're trying to
find convictions and passion and
breakthrough on the inside of our box
well when you realize that the box
doesn't even exist like someone made up
oh you're playing outside the box so we
all bought into there's a box well I
don't live it I don't even own a box
I don't even only want to get in your
box like oh you better come out here cuz
I ain't getting in there and so when you
start thinking like that time all of a
sudden everything is possible so I you
know people I disrupted want to make me
extraordinary because it lets you off
the hook
god that's good why you gave me right
everyone go all around the world be like
oh she's there yeah cuz it lets you off
the hook you get to play like oh if I
had to like hurt no what if you do what
if you do what if the got that we call
God the divine whatever your faith is
what if there's no partial it's not
going to give me a hookup and not give
you one not going to give me an
opportunity one I'm just gonna go after
if I die on my down a treadmill like
what's my said I'm gonna be on the
treadmill running you know I'm not I'm
just not gonna stop because I believe
all things are available to us
I'm just wanting to go after are you
willing and then that is so disruptive
cuz then you got to make a decision
because it's easier to live inside the
per
well as a black woman well as born and
raised in south-central well I'm
academically I'm Dyslexic
I'm dyslexic I wrote seven books i'm
dyslexic you know i just i just tell the
stories i'm just not the one to edit the
book cuz then we all in trouble i'm put
a period at the beginning of the
sentence right so just knowing like i'm
not perfect
what i do really well is i manage my
imperfection well and so we're all
waiting for perfect it's an illusion
that will never come to you and it's an
excuse to never show up and play your
story is not meant to be your fortress
your story is meant to be your fuel any
story like the fact the beauty of me
being one of the top 1% earners in
America is that I was on government's
assistance right like that's the beauty
like come on it wouldn't be a big deal
my family was rich whatever like I'm
supposed to do something the beauty is
that when you show the little engine
that could story like I'm not gonna run
fast but I ain't gonna stop running I
might slow down and have to breathe and
catch my breath but I'm not stopping cuz
I believe all things are available to
all of us and good people should do well
because when good people do well good
people just do more good in the world
alright I need to stop and catch my
breath yeah cuz right you thought this
is about it right it meant right right
so we're gonna really drive a point home
because you just messed me up
you make me extraordinary to let
yourself off the hook
yeah I've I've never been able to really
get my hands around the thing one of the
things that really really frustrates me
which is that people discount me because
they see me as successful right and in
doing that they robbed themselves of
something because they you can't show
somebody like your physical
transformation by the way is astonishing
watching your video but the hashtag
chasing Michelle Obama arms hashtag
hashtag respect right it's amazing
watch these videos she's so vulnerable
it's crazy and you see a side of Lisa
Nichols in that in that transformation
that you'd never really let people into
before that was just a vulnerability and
everything about you was absolutely
breathtaking and thank you but that's
easy to show people yes right but
showing them the transformation that you
went through mentally is not now I used
to Big Brother in South Central so I
went to USC it is an oasis right in the
heart of an immersed neighborhoods as
you well know right and so I had there
was an african-american kid that had
been adopted and I got very involved in
him and his family and spent a lot of
time in South Central
it's drab there's nothing that says this
is your future other than any this and I
remember talking to him and his
framework reference for what his future
could be was so terrifying that all I
used to do and this is back when I was
dirt poor I used to take him to Beverly
Hills to watch movies I would take him
to a fast food restaurant in Beverly
Hills just anything in Beverly Hills so
he could see hey there's like another
part of this world that looks different
it's vibrant
just because I wanted him to see that so
how on earth do you go in the middle of
that your son's father goes to prison
you're on public assistance you're in
the middle of this incredibly drab place
where teachers are telling you that you
the worst I've ever seen like I can't
like what would possibly other than what
you've already said that they're just
trying to drag you down and place it
there at how what ideas are bouncing
around in your
at that moment that you because it could
have been an empty promise right you put
your hand on J Lonnie's tummy and you
tell him I'm never going to be this
broke again don't worry but that could
have been an empty promise right but it
wasn't so what what happened like what
was going on in your mind right first of
all I knew something in me knew as a
junk child that I wasn't supposed to
stay in my environment so I live between
the Harlem 30s and the rollin 60s and I
had three fights a week to get home from
school and I remember when I was 15 my
teacher said what do you want to be when
you grow up and I said alive I can when
I get to 21 ask me again but I don't
have that luxury you have and I remember
that I remember that like it were
yesterday and but I also knew that I was
worthy or something but I didn't know
where it was I didn't see it anywhere
and if you remember all the television
shows during that time that had African
Americans in them they're pretty drab so
you had good times nothing was good
right you had different strokes where
the white man was saving the little
black kids except for in 1984 when the
Huxtables came out well that wasn't what
I grew up with I was on my way to
college then but I used to watch The
Brady Bunch
and I should say I don't know what they
had to do to have that kind of life but
they always worked everything out in the
end
and I declared I want a peaceful life
like that I want a life of possibility
and almost every single one of my
initial mentors I couldn't touch I
couldn't talk to I didn't have access to
but I held on to them like they were
oxygen because they were they were my
visit to Beverly Hills so I would go in
my head I would go through television
and I don't want to be rich I never
really aspired to be rich and I never
aspired to be famous I aspired to have
peace of mind to have Grace and ease in
my life to be able to provide for myself
so I already had this experience that I
wanted and so when I when when fast
forward to answer your question I'm in
Inglewood living off arbor vitae I want
government assistance and I run out of
money and I had to buy pampers for
Jelani and I had $11 and 42 cents in the
bank and I remember wrapping my son in
the towel for two days you know someone
said because when I tell the story I
always get teary eyed and someone said
do you fabricate the tears because
you've told the story so much
no I'm a mama every time I tell the
story I fill it again I remember the
second day like you said I have my sump
my hand on Jelani stomach and I said
don't worry baby
mommy will never be this broke or broken
again and that day what shifted for me
was I was willing and I don't know if
this is gonna sound crazy I was willing
to completely die to any form of me that
I had been so that I can birth the woman
that I was becoming the reason why a lot
of people won't become who they want is
because they're too attached to who
they've been and you hear it all the
time when people say I've always been
this way
okay well if that's working for you keep
doing that I knew it wasn't working for
me any longer I had hit my version of
rock bottom so I was willing to let go
of everything and everybody see another
reason why people won't get there is
because the doorway is for you to fit
through you're trying to carry everybody
else through because you're trying to be
rescue 9-1-1 and you got to rescue you
first I am much more valuable to my
family and to my community because I was
willing to let them go go through the
door myself teach myself learn myself
condition myself and then come back and
get them now much more valuable to them
now but I have to go through a window
time of 10 years of judgment you leaving
us hanging out with white people all the
time you go into these crazy countries
we don't know what you're I have to be
willing to to allow my conviction to
make me inconvenienced see we want to
grow but we want to stay liked by
everybody I was willing to be my own
rescue at the risk of your approval but
most of us aren't like that
Facebook is example we want to be liked
well I woke up and I liked myself today
so you'll like his extra
my job is to like me first I was willing
to say everyday Lisa you like you Lisa
are you proud of you
Lisa are you playing for loud everyday
before I checked in with anybody else
that's lonely by the way why won't most
people do it because it's scary and it's
lonely so what did I do
I was willing to find people who had
what I didn't have who were living lives
that I wasn't living who believed things
that I didn't know about and I was
willing to become their student I got up
every day and I ate a slice of humble
pie see when you get to this level even
me ten years ago you can get caught up
by reading your own fine print see
whenever I hear people reading my bio
and before I came on you read my bio I'm
in the back on y'all y'all y'all yeah
yeah yeah yeah cuz I don't want to ever
think I arrived I don't ever that bio
was old I you should be interested in my
future oh that's my bio what's my future
what are you doing what am i who am i
becoming for 2020 and we get caught up
in our BIOS we get caught up in our
status I never allowed that to stop me
from going and sitting at the hem of
someone and saying what do you know
about wealth see because it's three
forms to money
let's do relation to money we learn how
to earn it we learn how to keep it and
we learn how to grow it well I learned
how to earn it cuz my theme song was I'm
a hustler baby and I want you to know
everybody with me it ain't where I been
but where I'm about to go so I was
singing that song right I was singing
that song when I was I wasn't working
out of my closet as my office I would I
was in a walk-in closet where you really
couldn't walk in and you stepped in and
turn right and and and the clothes rack
you know how you have the hanger rack I
have pant hangers in the closet and I
had manila folders clipping on the pant
hangers those are my client files and I
was sit there and I put $2.99 mirrors
off that you get from CVS I put them all
around my closet walls so that I can
make my office look bigger I worked out
of that closet office for four years
singing that song and I know where I've
been
where I'm about to go I knew that I knew
how to make money I don't know how to
keep it cause ain't nobody had none of
my family so keeping was an issue
growing was never an issue so I went to
people who knew how to make it keep it
grow it I went to people who was about
serving others to the highest level see
I make a lot of money because I serve
more people see all your success is on
the other side of service people trying
to make money if it begins and ends with
money it's gonna be a short-lived
victory but if it's about transforming
lies then the wind keeps going and going
and growing and growing so I went to
people that knew what I didn't know and
I killed my ego every day murder my she
go every day cuz I got a big she go
coming come on right every day time and
I got hungry and I learned I went to the
same training 42 times yes I said 42
some focus stops is how I've been I
already I learned that already now I
wasn't there I wanted to be able to
finish their sentences I want to know
what you know I want to walk like you
talk like you and then I want to then
embed me in it but successfully his
clothes we're just not picking them up I
was the only african-american person at
this conference I was one of two women
at this conference within the last 29
sessions I led the conference but I was
willing to be the student first so
that's what I did number one and number
two I looked at every toxic behavior in
my life everyone you see me go behind my
own black hurt people don't want to tell
on yourself you're trying to protect
you're trying to do four things you're
trying to protect prove hide and defend
if you wake up every day and say I have
nothing to protect I have nothing to
prove I have nothing to hide I have
nothing to defend now who do I choose to
be because your energy is consumed with
protecting proving hiding and defending
but if you let go of that then now
you're in creation every day I told
myself that every day I got in the
mirror and I said three sentences and I
gave each sentence seven different
endings and at times I was crying so
hard I couldn't understand myself
because
the ending that sentence was so
difficult to say every day I looked in
the mirror said Lisa I'm proud that you
and I found seven different things to
celebrate Lisa for because we are under
celebrated because you want someone to
celebrate you mourn you celebrate in
yourself you want to hear thank-you from
others more than you're thinking
yourself you want to hear other people
say I love you more than you saying I
love yourself you're teaching the world
I set this on Oprah when I set this on /
she's oh my god I believe the exact same
thing so I knew I had one thing right
the world is looking at you and
following your example of how to treat
you how to treat you they're following
your example of how to treat you so how
you treat you the world's gonna follow
your lead so I had to start treating
Lisa better because I was everything for
everybody but nothing for myself and so
every day I got in the mirror and I
completed three sentences Lisa I'm proud
of you for second thing Lisa I forgive
you for that one took me down daily
because I had a son with a man who was
now imprisoned my biggest nightmare my
greatest nightmare I had been in a
relationship that turned mentally and
then physically abusive when my son was
three years old I made money but lost it
I was on government assistance I was on
welfare I was on WIC women infant and
children I got a lot of forgiveness that
I had to do but I was willing to forgive
myself every day and every day I said
the same thing for like six months until
it got easier and then one day I went
least I forgive you for and that thing
didn't come up anymore I was like oh
okay on to the next seven different
endings and the last thing I did every
day last sentence is Lisa I commit to
you that because we make bigger
commitments to other people if I commit
to y'all something right or die you can
bet your last dime that imma be there
i'ma show up you're gonna get two dimes
but I want make commitments for me for
myself and I wouldn't do it I eat my
weight so I started every day
celebrating Lisa forgiving Lisa and
making a commitment to Lisa and then I
was willing to invest
in me I love this I was willing to
invest money in me literally literally
literally I worked at LA Unified School
District and I knew I couldn't stay
there because they needed a degree I
didn't have a degree they didn't seem
happy I want to be happy so I would I
would have my son at daycare during the
day I'd work nine hours I pick him up
from daycare take him back to my office
I take a 30-minute break from six
o'clock to 6:30 to go get him I start
working from 6:30 until midnight every
day at my office on me every day put my
son on a little you know primary color
blanket something to occupy him give
them toys that I took the batteries out
of so he'd be confused for a little
while time I did not work and I'm sure
I'm serious and I did it every day every
day every day
I stopped going out to dinner I stopped
going out dancing I stopped getting my
nails done stopped getting my hair done
in every two weeks when LA Unified paid
me I brought a check to my dream and I
wrote in the memo line funding my dream
and I would I would mail the check to
the bank Wells Fargo and I mailed a
check to myself every two weeks for
three and a half years my family thought
you know thought I was smoking on drugs
like Shane going out she nut she eating
beanies and weenies always see we think
she'll drugs but she's not getting any
smaller so maybe not and um and I went
to the bank after three and a half years
this is the story you talking about I
walked in the bank I said I'm just gonna
check and see where that account is cuz
I wouldn't open the who wouldn't open
the statements cuz my mother used to say
when I was growing up girl this money
burn in my pocket and I'm like oh I
think money hot and thank you thank you
so much and it goes away fast so I'm not
gonna open the statement because I don't
want to know how much money I have
because I have a healthy relationship to
money I didn't even know a relationship
with money so while I'm at
training's they just kept saying saves
I'm like okay imma save I didn't need
the money that I was writing checks for
because it was the money I use on my
nails in my hair and then every check I
wrote to myself I made a challenge with
myself that it had to be 5% more than
the next check Wow
in the previous check so I and I didn't
really know how to calculate the fiber
since I'm like oh I'll just add 30
dollars I'll just add 16 I really didn't
know anything about it then I went out
and got a second job and I started
working in the evenings less on my
business and more out on jobs so I can
write a bigger check so I learned how to
live on $31,000 that's all I was living
on $31,000 we can make it we got it
I sold my ultimate I had at the time I
bought an old export Explorer you know I
just I just I just skinny down I moved
out of my three-bedroom house I moved in
with the roommate she smoked even and I
was like okay I'm gonna put towels under
the base of the door y'all you got to be
inconvenienced
I put tiles on the base of doors all the
smoke coming to room with me and my son
we slept side-by-side in the same bed
one from a three bedroom you know
three-bathroom house two story to a
roommate you know because I was willing
to write a check to fund my dream and I
kept writing funding my dream funding my
dream funding my dream and I walked in
the West Fargo three and a half years
later and I I gave her my name and said
hi my name is Lisa Nichols and she's
like you defunded my dream lady like
yeah so all these tellers came running
around the manager came around cuz I
guess everybody had process to check her
to and they're like we all been
wondering like everybody wants to know
what's the dream you find it and I was
like I don't know that's gonna cost some
money I'm a dream and so I said I just
came to get my balance and just see
where it is cuz I haven't opened me the
statements they're like why so no I
haven't open any of the statements cuz
money burns my mama's pockets on my burn
my pocket so I don't want to spend it so
she wrote the balance down are they
write the balance down and she turned it
and passed it to him and I looked at it
and I said no ma'am my name is Lisa
Shantanu
since my social security number I don't
even want that money cuz y'all gonna
want it back and I want to get in
trouble so can you just give me my
account
you know cuz I didn't know anyone in my
family that had $5,000 in their account
ten thousand dollars in account so when
you write down that I have sixty-two
thousand five hundred dollars in my
account that's not mine and so they all
teared up like everybody start crying
they're like no it's yours I look down
at my son Jelani who was five years old
now and I said Jelani I think life is
gonna change for you a mommy my son said
mommy can't we finally go to McDonald's
because I've been making them homemade
Big Macs for a while mommy can make you
better big mac then you don't run a
mcdonnell so cuz i was here i was
willing to inconvenience my entire life
my entire life i was willing to disrupt
my entire life to buy my future to buy
my possiblity to give my dream a chance
see we're not supposed to tuck our
dreams in on the on the pillow when we
get up in the morning we're not supposed
to leave them at home then going but
fill somebody else's dream we're not
supposed to do that that's not what
we're wired to do that's not who we are
your human spirit doesn't care about the
economy the human spirit doesn't care
that my son's father went to prison like
the human spirit doesn't care what's
happened to your family the human spirit
doesn't care about the past you may have
been molested or your family may have
been broker or you may have been
betrayed or you may have a divorce your
human spirit doesn't care about any of
that your human spirit simply says
what's our command for tomorrow what do
you want to create it's not keeping
score your brain is keeping score
because your brain is designed to keep
you safe
your soul your intuition your human
spirit is designed to make you sore and
when you get to the edge of that stage I
want to get out right now can I get up
right now whatever you want think I'm
gonna tell these stickers no
now when you get to the edge your brain
will always tell you to step back it's
always going to tell you to step back
because you can fall always it's going
to tell you step back because before you
fail the last time you did this you saw
someone else fail you could hurt you
could be off work it's going to tell you
it's designed to keep you safe so you
have to be willing to play between your
brain and your soul and on some days you
got to just listen to your soul and you
got to say I'm a leap I'm going to get
to the edge most people are at the edge
and you're sending at the edge and
you're watching everyone else fly
that's pip my ride watch my crib all
this stuff you know watching people's
lives on Facebook you're at the edge
watching someone else live wondering
what its gonna be like when you jump
without ever jumping now I'm just here
to tell you jump because only three
things can happen you're either gonna
jump and fly are you gonna jump and fall
on something soft are you gonna fall
down hard either way you're gonna get
back up you already know you got what it
takes to get back up you're not your
greatest fears not that you will fall
your greatest fears that you will live a
full life and never fly that you never
leaped you're not afraid of dying you're
afraid of dying before the world sees
who you really are before they really
get your fingerprint before they really
feel your breath before they really get
your contribution before they really
fill you that's what you don't want to
happen you don't want to leave this
place without us knowing you were here
all I'm doing is giving my dream a
chance and I'm not extraordinary you
don't get off the hook you don't get to
be let off the hook
I'm an ordinary woman who chooses every
day to make one more extraordinary
decision you're a grinder Yeah right
and look there's a lot of people out
there that can talk
you obviously have a profound gift for
storytelling but there's a lot of
storytellers what made you so
interesting to me is that you you've
done the hard work to get there you
don't make a secret of it you'll walk
people through it your books our how-to
manuals it's about doing the work it's
really a guide you have a great quote
there's no shortcut to the top there's
no elevator there ain't nothing but
stairs
that's what stairs you got to get your
gluts and action I was this more I was I
was on the wall this morning doing my
squats I don't know about y'all but I
was doing my squats this more I was
doing my lunges this morning every day
I'm prepared for what's ahead of me
there's no elevator there's no elevator
you can't Google download this somebody
trying to Google download it you know
you can't you can't follow me on
Facebook and get to where I am you're
just gonna see where I am she just
watched me through my window there's no
glory in that if you watch me watch me
to inspire you to get up and do one more
squat just a little bit longer if you
watch me watch me to inspire you to
forgive the perceiving the unforgivable
and love the personally unlovable
so the universe can love you back like
that if you watch me watch me so that it
makes you want to be a better man want
to be a better woman see when I rub
myself up against somebody great it's so
that I can want to be a better woman in
their presence only hang around people
who make you stand on your tippy toes
that's what I do all the time and then I
hang around people who I makes them on
there too because that's what I do
that's when people step onto my campus I
train I'm a trainer I'm a trainer I'm a
transformational coach I teach people
how to turn the unbelievable into your
reality that's what I do we're gonna
grind first thing I wanna do is say look
get your deodorant out put your tennis
shoes on we call squatting on laundry
don't run but on the other side of this
you will see a life that's barely
recognizable why cuz I'm living that
life look at my look at Who I am I'm a
c' student from Dorsey high school I ran
track I got a D in - and speech and a
fail in English when my English
professor from high school was in Barnes
and Nobles and he turned over Chicken
Soup for the African
console' my first book and he saw my
face on the back he said he stood in
Barnes and Nobles and started crying
whoa he said he knew I was a good person
but he didn't know if I make it cuz I
wasn't talented in any particular area
that then track
I wasn't talented academic wise I didn't
it didn't fire all fast for me I learned
later that was because I was dyslexic
and I had all these other learning
styles it makes me more unique you know
but in school it didn't show up that way
and so I'm clear that I didn't get a
hook up and I'm clear because of that
this is available to everybody so I'm
passionate about inviting people onto my
campus
come on get in my live room get in my
online I online trainings deep dive in
the book the book is like a three-day
training by itself my latest book
abundance now I put everything that
that's what my legacy will be it will
free more people than any other body of
work that I've ever done other than the
abundant life live program that I do
because I'm all about touching people
touching people letting them see touch
me let me touch you so you can see
there's zero distance between us and I
believe the universe says God says when
there's zero distance between you and it
it is yours so I used to go around my
girlfriend very very wealthy her husband
created she created something it was so
to kimberly-clark they made one sale for
a hundred million dollars in life
changed overnight for them so I would
often go to their house in La Jolla
California and I just rub all a stuff no
really I've been rubbing my friend's
stuff for like years I rub all this
stuff and because I believe that zero
distance between you and it means it's
available to you so surround yourself in
the things that stretch you and I'm not
even into the material things so I want
to live a great life like I'm not into
cars but if I got to be on the road I
want to be on the road in something
absolutely amazing you know I'm not into
materialistic things but I wanted to
have that kind of indicator that my life
is right I'm doing the right things as
well as in less than 30 days I take
eight of my family members to a Wahoo
for a vacation and all I got to do is
pack right just pack right I'll take
care of everything else my grandmother
was 87 my mother my father my son my
nephew just just a ton of people that to
me money just buys better memories money
just buys better memories it's not about
the money but listen if I got to have a
problem on a write of my problem in a
bed
a car owner I want to end my day and go
to a house that reflects the type of day
I have so I just would I would surround
myself I get I get hungry for it I'd
hunt for it
but through service and I got I will be
remiss if I didn't say this I was
willing to love some people from a
distance I was willing to love some
people from a distance because they were
holding you back I wouldn't even say
they we you know we use the phrase they
were holding me back as if they got a
slingshot around my neck but I look up
so half the time and I'm holding onto
them trying to use him as my excuse I'm
just saying just I don't know if it
steps on your toes if it does sit
indian-style I'm not stopping I you know
I cuz I could use my son well I don't
want to leave my phone I can use my
family they're not holding on to me I'm
holding on to them I'm using them as an
excuse to not play for logs I'm afraid
if I go to the edge I might fall mm-hmm
no my son when he was eight years old he
said mommy when you go to the faraway
places that I can't go to that I can't
call you at I get really sad please
don't go I could have stopped then when
he was eight but instead I took him out
of a public school put him in a private
school went to the principal the private
school and said I'd like to enroll my
son but let me tell you what we're gonna
do here when I leave and I'm going and I
go away real far where he can't call me
we're gonna distance learn him together
and you're gonna send him away with a
packet of homework and I'm gonna FedEx
that homework back to you she says miss
Nichols we don't have such a program I
said oh I'm happy to help you co-create
it
and so when I went to Kenya my son went
to Kenya from with me for a month and we
did all of his homework his homework was
like the everybody's project and we
FedEx it back home when it's in Swahili
he went to Swahili me when I went to
Australia Australia and we FedEx is
however I was willing to be
inconvenienced for my conviction like if
you go where you've never gone do what
you've never done and say what you never
said you'll become the woman in the man
you've always known yourself to be
you're trying to be someone new doing
the same thing you've done or at least
going to the edge and because most
people live in the centre Tom when
you're on the edge you feel the breeze
on your chicken you think you did some
ok come on like right that's oh yeah at
the edge of the box no I want to be out
of the box there's no box like I came
here to disrupt everyone watching me to
make sleeping and complacency difficult
to make you mildly to moderate to
significantly uncomfortable in any form
of mediocracy I don't come to keep you
comfortable I don't come to Raju
I don't come to Kumbaya motivate I come
to disrupt your norm so that your ad
normal can come out so that your
original can come out your uncharted
turf can come out I come to disrupt any
form of normal and I do it with the
freedom of being like they're not liked
like I love everyone here to like me
love everyone here to like me but my
freedom is if you don't like me it ain't
even my business my grandma says other
people's perception of you ain't none of
your business is your job to do the best
you possible and in doing you you
inspire us because we're all trying to
do each other if you want me to give you
Oprah I will always undoubtably fail you
but whenever you're interested I do a
damn good Lisa Nichols I got her on lock
that if you can master you and your
contribution to the planet your unique
fingerprint your individual breath your
DNA you're an unrepeatable miracle you
are an unrepeatable miracle give me some
of you give me your uniqueness I'm just
here to disrupt everybody's norm and
give them my uniqueness and hopefully
inspire millions to do the same and you
may not always be able to monetize your
passion
it's not always about monetizing your
passion let your investor ak8 your job I
like to call it your investor let your
investor help you do your dream by
simply stabilizing your household
letting your light stay on because you
can't be creative with the lights are
out believe me I've tried keeping food
in your refrigerator so your passion is
not always for profit your passion is
not always something you monetize your
investor takes care of your needs and
then you go do your passion yeah it's
interesting because we all have an
opportunity to to create who we are to
be something that's truly unique in our
own and so few people are actively
trying to do that how so walk me through
because what makes you special is you go
way beyond just the motivation what are
you teaching
Jelani about like what are the actual
words or tools that you're giving him to
be himself
Jelani is now he'll be 22 this year 6
foot 2 210 pounds
so what I teach my son is to do him not
me what I teach my son is he's gonna
find his best lessons and his biggest
mistakes so don't be afraid of mistakes
do you think most people don't know who
they are like if you really especially
young how do you help him find or how do
you help anybody find that define it
create it
yeah um so you're going into
transformation now and I love
transformation more than I love
motivation because it's it's it's a
game-changer so I do a series of
exercises constantly it's like it's like
doing ab work you want great abs you can
do sit-ups one time and get it you got
to go back again and again and again and
again that's the same for
self-development you got it you got to
live in it it's not a one-time shot so
when someone tells me oh I did your
workshop already I said oh you think you
got it all like I did the same workshop
42 times right and still can go back and
get something new so one I teach people
how do you get connected with you you
haven't met you yet how do you meet you
and so there's a series of exercises
that I have them do one exercise I'll
give you one exercise and someone's
gonna go home today and do this and it's
a game
changer and it's not even pretty so they
say Aurora because first of all as a
transformational coach very different
than a motivational speaker
inspirational speaker and informational
speaker those people are there to incite
you excite your transformational coaches
designed to go to the dark place with
you hold your hand and coach you out
into a brighter light that's why it's
the road less traveled so one exercise I
have them do and this is and you'll
notice just in this exercise you'll see
how I help get them there so this
exercise is called expose the lies and I
have you get about 16 blank sheets of
paper you may not feel like fill them
all up but if you're playing big in the
world like you are you might feel them
all up and I have you write down every
lie you tell yourself and I have you
talk about just the lies around money
first
you might fill up to three pages just
the lies are money and don't you can't
think about it and then not write
because if you think about is a lie
because the exercises expose the lies so
think of the lie you tell yourself so
I'll never have enough money money is
hard to earn I have to work hard to earn
good money
all right that's a lie like really it is
something I don't know that you can make
money while you sleep if you set it up
right right so all the lies about money
that you told yourself then I have you
tell yourself all the lies you've told
you some about who you are as a person
like I used to I used to say I'm stupid
because I used to hear all the time that
I was are you you almost in the you
almost qualify for the little bus you
know I see all kind of stuff and I began
to believe it I used to tell you I'm a
slow learner hold on slow down I
believed it so I would write all the
lies you tell yourself about who you are
next set of Lies which is why you have
16 sheets of paper and each each mindset
each category can take you to three
sheets of paper all the lies you tell us
about relationships romantic family
friends all the lies my family will
never understand me that was on in my
lives they'll never really get me I'll
never have a long-lasting relationship
with a man and then all the lies that
you tell yourself around your health and
fitness then all the lies you tell
yourself around your spirituality can I
tell you it's going to be ugly people
normally like I want to do this they
stop well it ain't gonna feel good if
you stop before we get to the finish
line
so you have all these lies between every
lie you skip four lines are equivalent
to four lines in space once you finish
that you read all the lies again so that
you and you're going to feel nauseous
and it may take you two or three days
because you got it got to take a break
from it right you finish it don't put it
off more than four days because now
you're procrastinating again and so
again you know you know you and then in
between the lie so you write all the
lies down in pencil very important you
write them all in pencil sixteen sheets
of paper ten sheets of paper whatever
then you get a red pen and you write the
truth in between each lie even if you
can't believe it yet now most people get
stopped is our I don't know what the
truth is okay but there is a truth
because this is a lie and every lie has
a truth even if you can't believe it yet
so now you write the truth down you're
gonna cry
you're gonna cry on the lies you can cry
on the truth because it's going to be
exposed to you the truth that you knew
but you forgot you knew it so you're
living like you don't know your truth
then after you've done that and the
truth is written between every lie lies
in pencil truth is in rip red ink you
read for two days the lie the truth the
lie the truth the lie the truth the lie
the truth two days at least four times
each day because now you're training
your brain neural linguistic programming
so the next time the light comes up your
brain is going to naturally default to
the truth that you wrote in red ink
because you gave your brain to things
versus just having this lie because when
people say you're stupid the only thing
you tell you you counter that with is
I'm not stupid right that's not positive
right and so now your brain is going lie
truth lie truth lie truth lie truth then
after the second day of reading the lie
the truth get a eraser and what you
don't do
erase the lie and now you're just left
with the truth so when you ask how do I
get people there I do things like that
so I always tell people watch my life
and you'll be entertained step in and
learn how to manage your life and you'll
be transformed step onto my canvas I've
just finished this mega series of videos
they're not even out yet called abundant
life and I did them after the book
abundance now because people kept saying
how do I get the stuff that
say in the book and I go oh so I did 14
videos in my home I'm committed to
showing others I don't want to be here
long amount to top don't feel good when
you only buy yourself you want company
like you want company we're tribal we
want queer community there's no glory in
me being here by myself
there's none whatsoever I want the
busted doors open every single person in
this room every single person listen to
my voice look into our face I want every
single person plus the double doors open
and go get yours and UPS is not gonna
come to your door saying hello I have a
life for you please sign here you gotta
go they're not coming they're not come
you got to go out the door put on your
best running shoes get your back strong
and go after then run like it after like
you're late for work I will run if we're
late for work run for someone else's
dream harder than we're run for ours
yeah I love what you were saying about
men you want people to cheer for you
more than you cheer for yourself love
you more than you love yourselves
anything which is actually really odd
it's really odd to expect somebody to be
more impressed with you than you are
with yourself to treat you better yeah
then you treat yourself and then I just
got to go here I got I got a pass I can
go here ladies we really do it men do it
as well but ladies were extroverted
doing it we dump on our men and put the
responsibility on you of our beauty of
our love of our self-worth and and and
then manage it differently you manage it
in possessions and in money and in bank
accounted and status that's where you go
for that traditionally there's always
exceptions to rules traditionally but as
women we emote and make you have to be
our self-esteem which is so incredibly
unfair we ask questions we don't want to
hear to answer to we ask questions that
you only have one answer you can give us
you really don't have freedom in that
answer there's one answer I need right
now to make me feel good and I just give
it to me that's so incredibly unfair and
we say we even have the old adage oh I
just in marriage I went a man to
complete me that's a big job you a lot
of woman to complete come on you know
where you come from in your issues
that's not the truth it's my job and I
love the dance between relationship
where there's woman woman man
and woman I love the dance between love
in relationship but it's not anyone's
job to complete you it's my job to
complete me
and then it's your opportunity to
compliment my completeness and so my job
is to work on Lisa versus to ask you to
give me what I need and I think when we
get that self development is something
we haven't jumped into enough and I
don't know about every culture but as
african-americans and some other
cultures as well people I've met we
mistake spirituality for self
development and we think spiritual
awareness is self development spiritual
awareness is spiritual awareness and
it's understanding the divine and the
higher power and the God whatever you
call it and having some place to release
- that's not self development self
development is doing that daggone work I
just talked about exposing the lies that
are in your head that's running you the
chatter the negative Nancy in your head
you know it managing it and exposing
exposing it that's our work and no one
shows us how to do that work yeah that's
a really important distinction that's
really interesting and I think that
people cloud the issue in their own mind
why because Ryan holiday who's been on
the show talks a lot about how merely
defining your dream your goal your
whatever can be intoxicating enough that
you forget to actually go do the work
yes and I think that they're never
thought about it until you just said
that but there is a sense of connection
wonderment when you can tap into
spirituality that is consciousness yeah
consciousness is very important but it
means nothing without action we got a
whole bunch of conscious stuff people
the conscious they know it all they know
all the awareness they know affirmations
but Joan Baez says that action is the
antidote antidote antidote for despair
Lisa Nichols adds action is the
prescription for success how can you
have one word one theory be the the
antidote for something while being the
prescription for another that's a
powerful something action Will Smith
said it when he was being interviewed by
Tavis Smiley
I'm just i'ma work hard in the next guy
by five
on the treadmill my dog a treadmill like
I get it I was in South Africa and this
gentleman was translating in Swahili
from another gentleman and the gentleman
asked me was I gonna go to the the party
that night and I said I'll try to make
it and he went to go back and tell me
those are you gonna go to the party and
I said I'll tell him I try to make and
he went to translate again he turned out
those are you gonna go to the party and
I said how am I try to make any look
those lady there is no work try in
Swahili or either you're going or not
tell them oh oh I'll be very day yeah
like think about that but in Swahili
there's no word for try we use try as a
crutch to say I really don't want to do
it but I don't want to tell you now just
say I'm not gonna do it or I'm gonna do
like I love it I never say try anymore
after that
Wow like bold yes or boat no just choose
cuz no one wants to live in uncertainty
and ambiguity and we live a life of ambi
I don't know what I want to be I don't
know what I'm gonna do because you'd
never have to move in ambiguity instead
just say I'm afraid to leap help me leap
help me leap help me get the courage to
leap cuz I don't want to live a life on
the edge just say that that's just this
the truth is sexy and it's liberating
and it's sobering and what I believe
people love most about me is that I give
them the gift of the truth my truth
first and then in some way I want to
inspire you to share your truth and be
okay with your truth and I just tell you
guys I'm that same girl who ran track
for Dorsey high school who struggled to
get through high school who got kicked
out of college because I couldn't afford
to stay that was on governments I'm the
same girl I'm that same girl I don't
forget her I'm also that same woman who
runs a multi-million dollar business
I'm also the same woman who has seven
bestsellers I own both of those I own
all of it
I don't shrink to my greatness and I
don't live in my side of my sorrow if
you can own your brilliance while owning
your your imperfections if you can own
your giant while owning your smallness
if you can live in duality constant
duality
the freedom will be earth-shaking if you
can live in that sea either you don't
want to be as great as you really are
and you're trying to dim your light so
that others won't feel insecure about
themselves in your presence and so you
keep playing at seventy-nine Watts when
you know you're supposed to shine at 159
Watts and you keep checking the
temperature of the room to see what the
room can handle versus just given the
room you and letting them at the your
lights too bright and let them put on
some shades can you give yourself
permission to live in the duality of
your imperfections and your smallness
and what you're learning and what you
still have to learn and your greatness
and your brilliance and your light can
you allow them to coexist and then serve
them up to the world to love you to see
you to inhale you to judge you to leave
you to love you
you're just some of us are just as
afraid of being loved as we are to be
left can you give the world permission
to leave you and love you so thank you
so much for coming
Galkin bream now where can they find you
you can go to abundance now online.com
abundance now online.com and that gives
you access to my book but it also gives
you access to some tools I don't just
want you to pick up the book I want you
to pick up the book and become a student
so that you can have the transformation
so I give you a lot of free things when
you go there but most importantly you
step on my campus I want you to step on
my campus I want you to find ways if it
feels good if it doesn't feel good learn
from someone else but if it feels good
and I speak your language then step on
the campus and give yourself that chance
I would invite you too we don't even
have it out yet but when it comes out
you'll hit the abundant life when the
abundant life program comes out run to
it run to it it's that it's going to be
that game-changer I just believe it with
all my heart and so I believe that on
the other side of it when I sit down my
grandmother says when you get my age
baby you suppose the city always felt
calls us all baby when you get my age
baby you supposed to sit in your
favorite rocking chair and tell the
story of your life but when you're your
age when you're your age when you're
your age you supposed to make sure the
story's gonna be good to tell and I just
believe that the abundant life program
helps to make sure that your story is
gonna be good to tell so go to abundance
now online.com
well guys uh I know I just had my bell
rung I hope you guys did as well and in
terms of making your life a story that
is well worth telling I cannot encourage
you enough to dig into this woman and
really get to the heart of the matter
and please I'm absolutely begging you do
not make her extraordinary to discount
the accomplishments that she has done
because the transformation that she has
gone through is absolutely mind-blowing
and if you really like we watch this one
is I was listening to her I thought oh
my god like the number of nuggets of
gold thrown out of her like a minute was
absurd so
rewatch it I normally encourage people
to watch things on to X watches that
have speed make sure you get them all
write them down it's utterly incredible
she doesn't make excuses and that's the
thing that really really was powerful
for me as somebody who spent time in
South Central and knows that that
environment is not doing anything to
propel you forward to have been in that
to have oh man just every disadvantage
thrown your way and to say I'm the only
one that's going to pull me out of this
I am my rescue no one else be your own
rescue my friends don't make excuses
connect with her do the work the work do
the work that's amazing and as she says
but she actually didn't say today with
knock knees and chattering teeth weep
and without my friends until next time
be legendary
take care
[Music]
English (auto-generated)
Lisa Nichols on Rescuing Yourself, Overcoming Fear, and Finding Success By Serving Others
1,214,194 views

30K

798

SHARE

SAVE


Tammy Golden
Published on Jan 1, 2017
SUBSCRIBE
Lisa Nichols, best selling author and transformation coach sharing nuggets on the process of success and a season of separation so that you can rescue yourself and be the change agent to go and help someone else. Feel free to share and bless someone.
SHOW MORE
Up next
AUTOPLAY

8:04
NOW PLAYING
These 3 Sentences Will Change Your Life | Lisa Nichols | Inspiring Women of Goalcast
Goalcast
910K views

10:17
NOW PLAYING
"You Will Never Be Poor Again" | START DOING THIS TODAY!!!
Video Advice
3.6M views

13:21
NOW PLAYING
The skill of self confidence | Dr. Ivan Joseph | TEDxRyersonU
TEDx Talks
16M views

10:44
NOW PLAYING
STOP WORRYING | Anxiety Relief Speech feat Les Brown, Alan Watts and Tom O'bedlam
FRESH MOTIVATION
1.2M views
Oprah Reveals She Has a Half-Sister, Patricia | The Oprah Winfrey Show | Oprah Winfrey Network
OWN
1.5M views
Lisa Nichols's Top 10 Rules For Success (@2motivate)
Evan Carmichael
996K views
Tony Robbins Saves A Marriage - 8 Minutes
Robbins-Madanes Training
3.5M views
"Something Very Important Happens at 03:30 am" | SADHGURU shares YOGIC SECRETS
Video Advice
4.8M views
WATCH THIS BEFORE YOU GIVE UP - Steve Harvey Motivational Story
The Outcome
3.5M views
Dr. Brené Brown on Faking It, Perfectionism and Living Wholeheartedly | SuperSoul Sunday | OWN
OWN
884K views
[Eric Thomas] THEY ARE SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE THEY HAVE ABSOLUTE DISCIPLINE | YOU HAVE NO DISCIPLINE
Inspire Discipline
307K views
The No.1 Habit Billionaires Run Daily
Be Inspired
4.9M views
My year of saying yes to everything | Shonda Rhimes
TED
1.1M views
Tony Robbins Tips On Changing The Way You Feel
Fox5NY
2.4M views
How to Properly Manage Your Money Like the Rich | Tom Ferry
Tom Ferry
8.6M views
WATCH THIS EVERYDAY AND CHANGE YOUR LIFE - Denzel Washington Motivational Speech 2019
AlexKaltsMotivation
4.4M views
SUPERSOUL SESSIONS  S1 • E1
Gary Zukav: The New Perception of Community with Oprah Winfrey | SuperSoul Sessions | OWN
OWN
1.8M views

11:34
NOW PLAYING
The Unstoppable Power of Letting Go | Jill Sherer Murray | TEDxWilmingtonWomen
TEDx Talks
1.3M views
RICH VS POOR MINDSET | An Eye Opening Interview with Robert Kiyosaki
Motiversity
405K views
The World's Darkest Secrets | YOU WON'T BELIEVE WHAT IS ACTUALLY HAPPENING!
Be Inspired
2.7M views
SHOW MORE

